README.md, before:

# BingoGenerator

A Website that generated bingo games on a variety of topics



## Configuration Options

- game type: allows you to pick one of the many predefined board/game topics
- board dimensions
- number of boards to generate at once



## future ideas

 - [ ] board variability adjustment (to be implemented): limits the size of the list of tiles that each board draws from to adjust the variability of the tiles.

	If this number is equal to the number of tiles in a board (width times height) then all boards will contain the same tiles in a different order. Any number that is greater than double the number of tiles in a board may allow all boards to contain totally separate tiles. (will need to account for free spaces).

	May be better to implement this as a scale from 0 (all boards are the same tiles in a different order) to 100 (all boards draw from the full pool of tiles and could share zero tiles with each other)

- [X] free spaces
  - random free spaces have been implemented, but not a way to make the free spaces consistent between generated boards
- [ ] numbers-based bingo mode?
- [ ] upload a custom image to the bingo sheet (advanced)
- [X] some way to digitally fill out the bingo cards to avoid printing?
- [ ] add other gamemodes such as:
    - [ ] fallacies
		https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LR6EA91zLo
		https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I52hsUyQeis
    - [ ] more generic christmas bingo
    - [ ] horror movie bingo (theres lots of lists of horror tropes)
    - [ ] animated/action (or other genres)

Commit message:

README and docs page for how to add new label types

README.md, after:

# LabelSheetGenerator

![a screenshot of the LabelSheetGenerator webpage](_site/assets/media/webpage.png)

A little web tool that turns a series of pre-generated images of labels into a PDF that can be printed on sheet-style label paper, such as the kind sold by Avery and other brands. 

This was originally built as part of a pair of companion tools to assist with a large migration over to the open source [snipeIT](https://snipeitapp.com/) asset tracking tool, but can be used for other things tool. It was primarily designed for working with labels generated by [asset-labelmaker](https://github.com/MoralCode/asset-labelmaker), but should also work reasonably well with images generated by other means.

## Output

This tool generates PDFs that look something like this:

![a demonstration PDF showing many labels laid out in a sheet](_site/assets/media/demopdf.png)

This PDF was created in an attempt to showcase every feature of LabelSheetGenerator at once:
- skipping some number of labels at the start (for reusing/reprinting over half-printed sheets of labels)
- multiple label groups (to support multiple types/sizes of labels)
- ability to print multiple label images into one printed label (maximize efficiency by buying less different sized label sheets and cutting them yourself)
- printing borders (this is a debugging feature intended for those who want to develop layouts for new label types. It screws up the alignment of labels slightly due to the border widths and is only available if you run it yourself as that configuration data is stored with the label templates)


## Development environment

unless you already have a properly configured jekyll dev environment set up (in which case you can just serve the site locally that way), all you should need is docker.

The `start_devel_env.sh` script will start a docker container that serves the files from this repo as a local webserver so all you have to do is edit the files and refresh the page to see your changes.

## Supporting new label layouts
See [docs/adding-new-label-types.md](docs/adding-new-label-types.md) (also available to view on the website)
